- Without UFS, you can keep rootfs in any storage device like eMMC
- Without storage also, we can keep rootfs in DDR
-  The order of *.ko file execution is mentioned in Module file
    →Just for further clarity, we will mention the "depends on" in config file while building, accordingly module file will pick up the order

### Dynamically Loadable Module (SD card Driver):
1. Initially driver is not loaded to kernel
2. We inserted a device
3. Host controller of SD Card (H/W) sends a **hotplug event** to Kernel
4. Kernel first finds the appropiate driver ( sd card driver)
5. It will load it from rootfs
6. Driver will register itself in kernel driver framework
7. Then it will bound itself with the device
   
```cpp
# ls
bin dev etc opt sbin tmp var
boot dump lib proc sys usr
#
# pwd
/
#
# ls
bin etc proc sys usr
dev lib sbin tmp
# 
```
### Why some files/directories are still present after killing the UFS driver?
Because they are not loaded from UFS. In QNX:

The initial filesystem (called IFS or InitFS) is loaded directly into RAM at boot.

It contains a minimal OS image: essential binaries `(/bin, /sbin)`, libraries `(/lib)`, startup scripts, and directories like /dev, /proc, /sys, etc.

### 4. The platform driver probe function, like int exynosauto_ufs_probe(struct platform_device *pdev), 
is called by the Linux kernel's driver core when a platform device and its corresponding driver have been successfully matched. This matching happens during device initialization, either when a device is registered or when a driver is registered.

Here's a more detailed explanation:
- Platform Device Registration: A platform device is registered with the kernel, often during system boot or when device is hotplugged.
- The kernel's driver core checks for matches between registered devices and drivers. This can be based on device names, compatible properties in the device tree, or platform data.
- Probe Function Call: Once a match is found, the kernel calls the probe function of the driver, providing the struct platform_device as an argument.****

### 5. UFS as Dynamically Loadable Module
- In this case, it should be a part of initRamFS (initrd)
- So that we load the UFS driver from RAM itself
- After that we can mount the rootfs in  UFS Storage

### 6. File system Related Operation

```c++
# blkid --> details information

/dev/sda46: PARTLABEL="b_qnx_dtbo" PARTUUID="4e595845-534f-4c53-7369-50415254302e"

# lsblk

# udevadm info -a -p /sys/block/sdd

/devices/platform/17e00000.ufs/host0/target0:0:0/0:0:0:3/block/sdd

Platform

Scsi

Block

# mkdir /pranab

# mount -t proc proc /pranab

Sys, debugfs, proc, NFS

For ext4 fs

Another fs : btrfs (relatively new fs)

: xfs (used on red hat 7)

Fuse fs : FS implemented on user space not as a part of kernel

User may not have to ve root to use them

# df -a

Filesystem 1K-blocks Used Available Use% Mounted on

tmpfs 4206880 1276 4205604 1% /dev

devpts 0 0 0 0% /dev/pts

proc 0 0 0 0% /proc

console:/ # df -k .

Filesystem 1K-blocks Used Available Use% Mounted on

/dev/block/dm-4 874836 874836 0 100% /

console:/ # df -i .

Filesystem Inodes IUsed IFree IUse% Mounted on

/dev/block/dm-4 18446744073709551615 3642 18446744073709547973 1% /

# mount -a

mount all filesystems mentioned in fstab

# fdisk -l | grep Disk

# fdisk /dev/sdd

n- new partition

d - delete

p - show partition

w- write
```


